# Database 

## What is a database?
It is a structured set of data held in a computer, especially one that is accessible in various ways. It is a collection or gathering of information. It should be organised and manageable. 
A database is a container for all your tables (and other SQL structures that relate to those tables). We must be able to structure tables to contain the right type of information, so that we can query it.

## Terminology
- Column - database tables are composed of individual columns corresponding to the attributes of the object. 
- Row - a row consists of one set of attributes corresponding to on instance that a table describes. Also known as Records or Tuples 
- Table - a table is a predefined format of rows and columns that define an entity. also known as file.
- DBMS - A DataBase Management System allows a computer to perform database functions of storin, retrieving, adding, deleting and modifying data.

## Types of Database 
- Flat-file Database
  - Stores everything in one table. Good for small number of records related to a single topic
- Relational Database A collection of data items with pre-defined relationships between them for easy access.
  - gives you the ability to separate masses of data into numerous tables
  - They are linked to each other through the use of keys.
- Big Data
  - MongoDB, Vertica
  - Used for Data Analytics and Business Intelligence
  - Digital Age and Internet of Things

## Relationship Types 

One to one:
- each row in table A is linked to no more than one row in table B, this is an attribute of the relationship not the tables

One to many:
- each row in the table can be related to many rows in the table in the relating table
- allows frequently used info to be saved only once in a table and referenced many times in all other tables

Many to many:
- one or more rows in a table can be related to many rows in another table

## Primary key
- Uniquely identifies each record in the table
- Each table can have more tha one columns that's part of its primary key (composite key) e.g order number, order line number
- It could be an attribute that is unique like NI number or something that is generated by the DBMS
- DBMS enforces the uniqueness of the Primary Key - not allowing repeated records to exist in the table.

## Primary key constraints
- Must be unique
- Must always have an entry
- Value must never change
- Each table may have a maximum of one primary key

## Foreign Key
- Natrual elationships exist between tables in most database structures, foreign keys are used to create solid relationships.
- Foreign keys ensure that the row of information in Table A corresponds to the correct row of info in table B
- Constraints is used to prevent actions that would destroy links between tables
- It prevents invalid data from being inserted into the foreign key column - it must be one of the values contained in the table it points to
- There is no uniqueness constraints for foreign keys
- A table can hvae any number of foreign keys 
- A row cannot be deleted from a reference table if it is in use via a foreign key


